WT-10587 Create documentation for WiredTiger Azure extension (#8802)
wiredtiger/wiredtiger: ext/storage_sources/azure_store/README.md

# WiredTiger's Azure Extension
## 1. Introduction
This extension allows WiredTiger storage source extensions to read from and write to objects stored in Azure Blob Storage using WiredTiger’s provided internal abstraction for storing data in an object storage service.

## 2. Building and running
This section describes how to build WiredTiger with the Azure extension enabled.

### Requirements
<li> CMake 3.13 or higher

> <li> G++ 8.4 or higher <p>

Reviewer: The formatting here is a little weird, we should use Markdown syntax rather than HTML. Also, do we have a minimum Clang version?

Author: It seems to work on clang 6.0.0 so im not too sure if there is a minimum version required

Check your CMake version by typing `cmake --version`.
Check your g++ version typing `g++ --version`.

### How to install requirements (skip this step if requirements have been met)

If the CMake version is not 3.13 or higher update your CMake to 3.13 using the following.
```bash
sudo apt remove cmake
wget https://cmake.org/files/v3.13/cmake-3.13.0.tar.gz
tar xf cmake-3.13.0.tar.gz

cd cmake-3.13.0

./configure
make -j $(nproc)
sudo make install
```

Check that your CMake has been updated using the following command `cmake --version`.

If your cmake is not in `/usr/bin/` create a symbolic link using the following.
```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/cmake /usr/bin/cmake
```

If the G++ version is not 8.4 or higher update your G++ to 8.4 using the following.
```bash
sudo apt-get install gcc-8 g++-8
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-8 20 --slave /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-8
```

> Check that your G++ has been updated using the following command `g++ --version`.

Reviewer: I'm not a huge fan of this section. The `sudo ln -s` line can be OK for some individual making changes to a specific system, but it's not suitable as general advice. I think we can probably lose this section entirely - it's preferable to have the system package manager install/manage these dependencies anyway, and different systems will all use different tooling (APT, yum, pacman, etc.)

Author: i've removed the whole instruction on how to install the requirements in my latest commit

Reviewer: Thanks

### Letting CMake manage the SDK dependency as an external project

This method configures CMake to download, compile, and install the Azure SDK while building the Azure extension.

```bash
# Create a new directory to run your build from
mkdir build && cd build

# Configure and run cmake with Ninja
cmake -DENABLE_PYTHON=1 -DHAVE_UNITTEST=1 -DIMPORT_AZURE_SDK=external -DENABLE_AZURE=1 -G Ninja ../.
ninja
```

* The compiler flag `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` must be set to `external` for this build method.
* `ENABLE_AZURE` defaults to looking for a local version, the `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` setting will override that default.
## 3. Development
In order to run this extension after building, the developer must have an Azure connection string locally to a container with the right permissions. The connection string must be stored in an environmental variable called `AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING`. To store your connection string into an environmental variable type `export AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION_STRING="your Azure connection string"` into your terminal.
## 4. Testing

> Before running the tests set the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` to tell the dynamic link loader where to look for the dynamic shared libraries that we made earlier.

Reviewer: It's conventional to just say "the linker" rather than "the dynamic linker/loader" :-)

Author: fixed in https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/7a0835b2f48fa7ee3afc558eac783f798980748f

```bash
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$(pwd)/azure-sdk-cpp/install/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

### To run the tiered python tests for Azure:

```bash
# This will run all the tests in test_tiered19.py on the Azure storage source. The following command will run the tests from the build directory that was made earlier.
cd build
env WT_BUILDDIR=$(pwd) python3 ../test/suite/run.py -j 10 -v 4 test_tiered19
```

### To run the C unit tests for Azure:

```bash
# Once WiredTiger has been built with the Azure Extension, run the tests from the build directory
cd build
ext/storage_sources/azure_store/test/run_azure_unit_tests
```

To add any additional unit testing, add to the file `test_azure_connection.cpp`, alternatively if you
wish to add a new test file, add it to the `SOURCES` list in `create_test_executable()`
(in `azure_store/test/CMakeLists.txt`).

## 5. Evergreen Testing
Currently the Evergreen testing runs both `test_tiered19.py` and the unit tests in `test_azure_connection.cpp`. Should a developer wish to additional tests to the extension, they would first have to write the tests before adding it as a task to the evergreen.yml file.

> Evergreen has hidden the connection string for Azure so it's necessary for the developer to store this in the environmental variable in Step 3.

Reviewer: "environment" rather than "environmental".

Author: fixed https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/7a0835b2f48fa7ee3afc558eac783f798980748f

> When creating a new task, a developer should note that the CMake binary should be set to the MongoDB V4 toolchain due to the CMake 3.13 minimum requirement.

Reviewer: Can you fix the line lengths a bit so it's still readable in a terminal/text editor rather than just the rendered Markdown?

Author: yup i've adjusted it in https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/7a0835b2f48fa7ee3afc558eac783f798980748f so it fits the 100 char limit let me know if there are any changes that need to be made

in Azure Blob Storage using WiredTiger’s provided internal abstraction for storing data in an object
storage service.

## 2. Building and running
This section describes how to build WiredTiger with the Azure extension enabled.

### Requirements
* CMake 3.13 or higher
* G++ 8.4 or higher
### How to install requirements (skip this step if requirements have been met)

If the CMake version is not 3.13 or higher update CMake to 3.13 using the following.
```bash
sudo apt remove cmake
wget https://cmake.org/files/v3.13/cmake-3.13.0.tar.gz
tar xf cmake-3.13.0.tar.gz

cd cmake-3.13.0

./configure
make -j $(nproc)
sudo make install
```

Check that CMake has been updated using the following command `cmake --version`.

If CMake is not in `/usr/bin/` create a symbolic link using the following.
```bash
sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/cmake /usr/bin/cmake
```

If the G++ version is not 8.4 or higher update G++ to 8.4 using the following.
```bash
sudo apt-get install gcc-8 g++-8
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-8 20
    --slave /usr/bin/g++ g++ /usr/bin/g++-8
```

Check that G++ has been updated using the following command `g++ --version`.

### Building

> There is currently only 1 way to build WiredTiger with Azure extension:

Author: should this be documented even if it has not been implemented? It doesnt make sense if it doesnt exist yet to document this

> There is currently only 1 way to build WiredTiger with Azure extension:

Reviewer 2: Fair point! Lets not include it.

# WiredTiger's Azure Extension
## 1. Introduction
This extension allows WiredTiger storage source extensions to read from and write to objects stored
in Azure Blob Storage using WiredTiger’s provided internal abstraction for storing data in an object
storage service.

## 2. Building and running
This section describes how to build WiredTiger with the Azure extension enabled.

### Requirements
* CMake 3.13 or higher

> * G++ 8.4 or higher

Reviewer: If clang 6.0.0 is the lowest version you can test with, I'd just list that. The way it's written right now makes it sound like to need GCC, and Clang won't work for some reason.

Author: sounds good :) added in https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/c2e873fdea9905eb5c0f4c467f5934037aedd4e3

Reviewer: Thanks!

* clang version 6.0.0 or higher

### Building

There is currently only 1 way to build WiredTiger with Azure extension:

> 1. Letting CMake manage the Azure SDK dependency as an external project, letting it download, link

Reviewer 2: If we only have one way of it right now to know use a numbered list. I would say: 
```suggestion
There is currently only 1 way to build WiredTiger with Azure extension.
This way manages the Azure SDK dependency as an external project. This method will download the Azure SDK, and link to the WiredTiger's build system and build the extension.
```

Author: resolved in https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/0892029b180e2bbabfd909fd3d6c726e39b4f590

# WiredTiger's Azure Extension
## 1. Introduction
This extension allows WiredTiger storage source extensions to read from and write to objects stored
in Azure Blob Storage using WiredTiger’s provided internal abstraction for storing data in an object
storage service.

## 2. Building and running
This section describes how to build WiredTiger with the Azure extension enabled.

### Requirements
* CMake 3.13 or higher
* G++ 8.4 or higher

> * clang version 6.0.0

Reviewer 2: I think we should also say or higher, to denote that its forward compatible as wlel. 
```suggestion
* clang version 6.0.0 or higher
```

Author: addressed https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/1329d79760b71f8779343c5eee6b23f5933dced0

1. Letting CMake manage the Azure SDK dependency as an external project, letting it download, link
    and build the extension.

There are two CMake flags associated with the Azure extension: `ENABLE_AZURE` and `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK`.
* `ENABLE_AZURE=1` is required to build the Azure extension.
* `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK={external}` is used to set the build method.
    *   `external` tells the compiler to search for an existing system installation of the SDK.
    *    This flag should be set alongside the `ENABLE_AZURE` flag.
    *    If the `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` flag is not specified, the compiler will assume a system
            installation of the SDK which will be implemented at a later stage.

### Letting CMake manage the SDK dependency as an external project

This method configures CMake to download, compile, and install the Azure SDK while building the
Azure extension.

```bash
# Create a new directory to run the build from
mkdir build && cd build

# Configure and run cmake with Ninja
cmake -DENABLE_PYTHON=1 -DHAVE_UNITTEST=1 -DIMPORT_AZURE_SDK=external -DENABLE_AZURE=1 -G Ninja ../.
ninja
```

* The compiler flag `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` must be set to `external` for this build method.

> * `ENABLE_AZURE` defaults to looking for a local version, the `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` setting will

Reviewer 2: I don't agree that it works like this. IMPORT_AZURE_SDK must be set period if used with ENABLE_AZURE. If not it should be erroring out.

Author: sure i've updated the comment to reflect that `IMPORT_AZURE_SDK` must be set if used with `ENABLE_AZURE` if not it will error out. https://github.com/wiredtiger/wiredtiger/pull/8802/commits/1329d79760b71f8779343c5eee6b23f5933dced0
